README.rst, before:

HIRMEOS Metrics Widget
======================

Development
-----------

For development purposes, this project consists of three main files.

1) *src/hirmeos-metrics.js* - This contains javascript for a React-like
   app, which manages the logic for the widget.

2) *src/hirmeos-metrics.css* - This contains styling for the widget.

3) *src/index.html* - This demonstrates how the widget would be
   integrated into a page.

Files *(1)* and *(2)* are designed to simply be loaded from a CDN, so to test
these, simply open file *(3)* in a browser, e.g.

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ firefox src/index.html

Note: the ``baseUrl`` variable has been set to use a local version of the \
metrics-api. Comment this out to query the live API.


Moving to production
--------------------

There are two steps required to get the JavaScript ready for production.
For more detailed instructions, please refer to the resources listed:

**1. Converting JSX into javascript.**

From the project root directory, run the following commands:

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ npm init -y
    $ npm install babel-cli@6 babel-preset-react-app@3
    $ npx babel --watch src --out-dir ./processed --presets react-app/prod

The final command will convert the React/JSX code to pure JavaScript, making
it readable by more browsers, and also allowing it to be minimised.

This command constantly waits, and will update the script as you edit
`src/hirmeos-metrics.js`.

For more information, this was based on:
https://reactjs.org/docs/add-react-to-a-website.html#add-jsx-to-a-project


**2. Minimising the javascript.**

Make sure you complete step 1. From the *processed* directory, run the
following commands:

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ npm install terser
    $ npx terser -c -m -o hirmeos-metrics.min.js -- hirmeos-metrics.js

For more information, this was based on:
https://gist.github.com/gaearon/42a2ffa41b8319948f9be4076286e1f3


The *src/index-min.html* file
-----------------------------

This file shows how the minimised JavaScript widget would be integrated
into a page. You will notice a small difference - because the file has been
converted from JSX to JavaScript, we no longer need to specify *type="text/jsx"* 
when loading this script.

It is useful to view this file in your browser to make sure the
production steps mentioned above were successful.

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ firefox src/index-min.html


Production-ready implementation
-------------------------------

This shows a production-ready implementation of the widget. Both the JavaScript
and CSS are imported from our CDN, and the React imports are set to the
production versions of these scripts.

Note: the ``baseUrl`` variable has been disabled so the widget will query the
live instance of the metrics-api. Please be sure to update your token
accordingly.

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ firefox src/index-from-cdn.html



Widget customisation
--------------------

The widget can be customised by setting values in the widget_params variable.
Currently these include:

    - ``uri``: Required - The URI of the book / Chapter you want to display
      metrics for.

    - ``locale``: Language code for locale that the widget should be displayed
      in (default is 'en').

    - ``baseUrl``: Base URL for querying metrics. Can be set if you have a local
      instance of the metrics API (defaults to "https://metrics.ubiquity.press").

    - ``WidgetTitle``: The title that appears on the widget
      (default is 'Metrics').

    - ``showDetailedMetricsLink``: ``true`` or ``false``, whether or not to
      display link to detailed metrics (if available; defaults to ``false``).

    - ``detailedMetricsLink``: URL link to detailed metrics (no default).

    - ``detailedMetricsText``: Text to show for displaying the link to detailed
      metrics (default is 'Show detailed metrics').


Only ``uri`` needs to be set in order for the widget to work.

Commit message:

* (Design) Remove show/hide action from Metrics available count button * (Design) move the metrics-count-container container either to the right or inside metrics-details-container * (Design) In details container: move “Type” column to the left activate the link to definition only in “type” column and add capitals to the types * (Translations) Capitals for EN terms * (Translations) Plural for ES « Estadísticas » and PT « Estatísticos » * (Translations) Add article to FR « Voir/Masquer les détails »

README.rst, after:

HIRMEOS Metrics Widget
======================

Development
-----------

For development purposes, this project consists of three main files.

1) *src/hirmeos-metrics.js* - This contains javascript for a React-like
   app, which manages the logic for the widget. But you will need to use
   *processed/hirmeos-metrics.js* (see note below).

2) *src/hirmeos-metrics.css* - This contains styling for the widget.

3) *src/index.html* - This demonstrates how the widget would be
   integrated into a page.

Files *(1)* and *(2)* are designed to simply be loaded from a CDN, so to test
these, simply open file *(3)* in a browser, e.g.

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ firefox src/index.html

Note: the ``baseUrl`` variable has been set to use a local version of the \
metrics-api. Comment this out to query the live API.

Note: This will no longer work on modern browsers. As a security precaution,
JS files in the same directory ort subdirectories as a locally-loaded html
file will be blocked. (Due to
https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2019-21/#CVE-2019-11730
). As a result, the *src/index.html* uses the js file in the *processed*
directory. For now, please run step (1) of  **Moving to production** when
developing.


Bumpverion
----------

A bumpverion config file has been added to this project, starting from release
0.1.2. This is simply to keep track of the code that has been uploaded to our
CDN (Refer to **Production-ready implementation**). With each new official
release of the Widget, we produce a min.js file and .css file with a version
embedded into the file name. The bumpversion tag created will correspond to this
version. 


Moving to production
--------------------

There are two steps required to get the JavaScript ready for production.
For more detailed instructions, please refer to the resources listed:

**1. Converting JSX into javascript.**

From the project root directory, run the following commands:

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ npm init -y
    $ npm install babel-cli@6 babel-preset-react-app@3
    $ npx babel --watch src --out-dir ./processed --presets react-app/prod

The final command will convert the React/JSX code to pure JavaScript, making
it readable by more browsers, and also allowing it to be minimised.

This command constantly waits, and will update the script as you edit
`src/hirmeos-metrics.js`.

For more information, this was based on:
https://reactjs.org/docs/add-react-to-a-website.html#add-jsx-to-a-project


**2. Minimising the javascript.**

Make sure you complete step 1. From the *processed* directory, run the
following commands:

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ npm install terser
    $ npx terser -c -m -o hirmeos-metrics.min.js -- hirmeos-metrics.js

For more information, this was based on:
https://gist.github.com/gaearon/42a2ffa41b8319948f9be4076286e1f3


The *src/index-min.html* file
-----------------------------

This file shows how the minimised JavaScript widget would be integrated
into a page. You will notice a small difference - because the file has been
converted from JSX to JavaScript, we no longer need to specify *type="text/jsx"* 
when loading this script.

It is useful to view this file in your browser to make sure the
production steps mentioned above were successful.

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ firefox src/index-min.html


Production-ready implementation
-------------------------------

This shows a production-ready implementation of the widget. Both the JavaScript
and CSS are imported from our CDN, and the React imports are set to the
production versions of these scripts.

Note: the ``baseUrl`` variable has been disabled so the widget will query the
live instance of the metrics-api. Please be sure to update your token
accordingly.

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ firefox src/index-from-cdn.html



Widget customisation
--------------------

The widget can be customised by setting values in the widget_params variable.
Currently these include:

    - ``uri``: Required - The URI of the book / Chapter you want to display
      metrics for.

    - ``locale``: Language code for locale that the widget should be displayed
      in (default is 'en').

    - ``baseUrl``: Base URL for querying metrics. Can be set if you have a local
      instance of the metrics API (defaults to "https://metrics.ubiquity.press").

    - ``WidgetTitle``: The title that appears on the widget
      (default is 'Metrics').

    - ``showDetailedMetricsLink``: ``true`` or ``false``, whether or not to
      display link to detailed metrics (if available; defaults to ``false``).

    - ``detailedMetricsLink``: URL link to detailed metrics (no default).

    - ``detailedMetricsText``: Text to show for displaying the link to detailed
      metrics (default is 'Show detailed metrics').


Only ``uri`` needs to be set in order for the widget to work.
